# UK Election 2024 Forecast App
This is a toy project I used to build my first React App

## Methodology

Inputs:
- 2019 Election Results
- last 5 years of polls from the BBC Poll of Polls data
    - https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cyxx9vxwjk9o
- For NI
    - https://www.electoralcalculus.co.uk/polls_ni.html

Process:
- Normalise the vote share in each constituency to percentages
- Compute the average national vote share for each party in the constituencies in which it competes. (Zero votes in the input means it didn't compete)
- For each party in each constituency compute the ratio between it's vote share and the party's average vote share nationally
- Using the BBC data, compute the forecast vote share of each party in England, Scotland, Wales based on the average of last 15 polls. 
- Compute a country weighting factor for SNP and PC based on the fact that they only contest seats in Scotland and Wales (i.e total seats in England, Scotland, Wales divided by seats in Scotland/Wales). NI is treated as a separate election by assuming that no party competes in both NI and the rest of the UK (Greens and LD do but not signifcantly in NI)
- The forecast vote for each party in each old constituency is calculated as: party's forecast vote share x party's vote ratio in constituency x party's country weighting
- The forecasts are normalised to percentages in each old consituency
- Finally, using the mapping data from https://commonslibrary.parliament.uk/content/uploads/2023/07/Boundary_changes_data_file.xlsx, the forecasts for the new electoral constituencies is generated by computing a weighted sum of the forecasts for each old constituency which overlaps with it.

Probability Calculations:
- perform Principal Components Analysis on the last 5 years of BBC polls data to retrieve the top 3 principal components.
- the dashboard then allows you to adjust the forecast by changing the factor loading on each principal component.
- the dashboard also allows you to see the effect of uncertainty on each constituency forecast by changing the standard deviation on each factor loading. The probability is computed by calculating the variance of the difference between the first and second place parties (sum of squares of difference in principal vector components and standard deviation of factor loading for the vector) and using the normal distribution assumption to infer the probability that the difference in votes forecast for the two parties is significant.